With that, we'll dive into
the first part of the course,
which is the introduction to Vuex.
And before that,
I think it's useful to talk about
what state management is as well.
And so, we'll start with
the principles of state management.
So, when we talk about state management,
it's really important for
us to start by talking about state,
and what exactly state is.
So in the context of an application,
state is a condition of
an object that's stored as data.
So, this is sort of an,
seems very arbitrary, but
we'll use a metaphor to explain
what exactly I mean, and
with that, it might make a bit more sense
and you might get clarity in that way.
So, let's imagine a vending machine,
which is just a machine that has snacks in
it, generally it takes money, and so on.
And so there are various ways in which
you can interact with a vending machine.
You can get items from a vending machine,
let's assume you put coins in it and
you get something out.
So, that's sort of an action and
a transaction that happens.
And then you can do it however many times,
you could do it a hundred times, whatever.
However many items that are in
the vending machine, you could do it for.
But obviously, there comes a point where
the vending machine becomes empty,
because you can't infinitely
take items from it.
There's a point in time where
it needs to be restocked.
So, you have this concept of
stocking items in a vending machine.
So not only are you taking items away, but
there's the possibility of
adding to the vending machine.
Obviously, there are permissions
associated with it.
But for demonstration purposes,
we wanna look at the actions and
transactions that can happen within
the context of a vending machine.
And so, let's look at the flow
of how actions happen and
how state changes within
this particular case.
So let's assume there's a bag of cookies
and you want that bag of cookies.
In order for you to do that,
you would basically be like, hey,
I want a bag of cookies.
And the cookies, to some extent will
emit an event to check the inventory,
because it needs to check whether
there are cookies to give you.
And then the inventory will
then allow you to get it,
so you'll emit over to the vending
machine being like, yes,
give this person the cookies they want and
then all is well.
And of course the vending machine also
has the ability to emit to the supplier
information with regards
to the transaction.
So sometimes suppliers and
vending machine owners might wanna know
how many items are being retrieved,
when they're retrieved, and
at what frequency for example.
So, when that transaction happens,
they might wanna know about it.
So you can sort of emit various
levels of that transaction,
you can emit it down to like just
the vending machine and giving the item.
Or you can go further to emitting
it all the way to the supplier, so
they know that the transaction happens.
And of course there's a flow upwards to
some extent which is that stocking or
updating the inventory of
the vending machine itself.
So for instance, if we look at supplier,
the supplier is able to change inventory.
Because ultimately the supplier is sort
of the owner of that particular thing,
and so can determine whether or
not an item should be restocked or not.
And so it passes props
essentially up to the inventory,
so it can add things to it,
it can remove whatever it needs to do.
But essentially inventory has to listen to
the supplier in order to know what it is.
And similarly within
the vending machine itself,
it has this concept of states,
and inventories of child
of a vending machine because
inventories within vending machine.
And so vending machine basically can
determine how many how much inventory
is within it.
So it's pro similar to
supplier to some extent.
Again, it's a pretty contrived example,
but you get the point,
which is this flow of
events from one to another.
And so essentially in view,
there's a way of passing state.
And I did mention it a little bit earlier,
but here's more concretely,
the way that you pass the state
is through props and events.
Props are attributes that you
can register on to a component.
Generally it follows
a parent child relationship.
So the parent passes attributes or
properties down to the child and
so on, so
it follows a very specific hierarchy.
And that's generally how state is passed.
Events are used for
communicating between components.
So compared to props
which are parent child,
it has to be the parent that
passes things to the child.
In the event of events,
events like children,
are able to tell parents
when things happen to them.
So for example, if someone is requesting
a bag of cookies, that's a child, and then
it can tell the vending machine parent
that hey, someone's requesting this item.
So that's how events are propagated up,
you might have heard that term.
And so within Vue,
that's how state is passed and
how state is communicated
throughout the application itself.
And so, if you are a visual person,
which I am,
you might want to see how that
looks like in terms of a hierarchy.
So let's look at,
I'm gonna go all the way to the top.
So let's assume there's like
a corporation of vending machines.
And they're basically sort of the
supplier, and they own multiple vending
machines, and each vending machine has
various inventory of stock within it.
So you have this multi-tier, and then all
the way at the bottom is the consumer,
the person who puts money into
the vending machine or requests the item.
If the person is requesting an item,
they are putting money into it.
And the supplier might want to know who,
at what time, requested what item.
And so the way you could do this, is that
the child, or the child is essentially
the user because they're the lowest
level at which the state is propagated.
And so when you put money into it,
the specific item has been requested.
So it knows, hey,
this person wanted a bag of cookies or
a bag of chips in this case in this
particular time, and then the parents
vending machine is notified that
there's one item being removed.
And then the parent vending machine
might then tell the supplier, and so
there's this concept of events being
passed up the chain to the parent.
And then of course,
you have the concept of passing it down.
So props can be passed
down to the child element.
And so, the supplier can pass the specific
inventory down to the vending machine.
Let's say, there are chips in the vending
machine, the supplier can determine how
much chips is in the vending
machine if they stocked it.
So if there are currently 10,
the supplier can be like, they're now,
is 40 because I say they're 40, and
that is how props are passed on.
It's essentially from parent to child, so
that's a specific type of relationship
that in which state is passed.
Of course, those two items of getting and
adding are very limited, and
they're not the only things that you can
do in the context of a vending machine.
So let's assume this
vending machines can break.
Well, we don't have to assume,
that happens.
And someone needs to come and fix it,
because if a vending machine is broken,
you can't get or add item to it anymore,
because it no longer functions
as a vending machine.
And so now there's this
concept of multiple events.
So let's say someone kicked it.
Ann is also wanting to add,
get something from it at the same time.
There's an event being propagated up,
and in this particular case,
there's a repair event and
a restock event.
Because that particular item is one,
maybe not in stock, and
two, the vending machine itself
might need to be repaired.
So there's various pieces of things that
are happening within the application.
So not just one thing, but there's
two pieces of state that's changing.
And of course, things can add up.
So there's various parts
of the app that can change.
So, not only are you repairing and
restocking, or fixing and changing,
all of these can change.
And so, that becomes really complex
the larger your application is, and so,
there needs to be
a separation of concerns.
And by separation of concerns,
I mean that every individual entity
should have ownership of its own state.
So for example, vending machines
should have knowledge only of itself,
like am I fixed?
Am I in good condition?
When was I last stocked?
And so on.
And then you might wanna have a concept of
inventory which is sort of separate but
related to vending machine.
An inventory itself is just,
how many items are within the thing,
is this item expired or
whatever that, maybe.
And then,
there's also the concept of supply.
The supplier might want to
manage the personnel and
the people who are going to fix and
restock and so on.
And so there's various pieces of the app
that you might want to extrapolate.
Because in the previous example, we had
everything sort of related together, and
things can get really nested and
complicated really quickly.
And so the separation of concerns is
sort of where state management comes in.
It's this concept of centralized state.